"My purpose is to make sure
All information will not disappear or be deleted. "
Voices from Chinese citizens like this are rare.
They are willing to speak out for government censorship
Dissatisfaction with news reports about the new coronavirus.
They asked for anonymity,
Because of their behavior
It may expose themselves or their families to danger.
But these people are part of this wave of citizen anti-censorship,
They strive to convey the information,
In a country where information review is so strict.
An account or message that requires free speech like this,
It was quickly withdrawn from the Internet.
Or a video like this showing people frustrated with life in isolation
After being posted on the Internet, it was soon withdrawn.
But, at least for now,
This situation is undergoing some changes.
Citizens are saving and reposting every day
Information that the government does not want to publish.
"I started collecting hundreds of screenshots.
Later, because the outbreak was very serious,
I think keep this information or
It is very important to collect this information systematically. "
Experts say they have never seen such a large scale
Resistance to government censorship on the Internet.
"In the beginning, I just did it myself.
Now there are about one hundred people,
We are constantly translating
News articles and social media posts that are constantly being deleted. "
Social media networks such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter
Already banned in China,
But people who are proficient in the Internet use technology
Let them review the content
Repost to these platforms,
At the same time, it is not subject to surveillance by the authorities.
They created an image archive database,
Save it like this video showing the overwhelming hospital,
They also reposted personal videos that people shared:
Some of them use some unexpected platforms,
Including Github, which is generally used by programmers.
Another taboo that Chinese citizens are challenging?
They are publicly demanding free speech.
This was triggered by the death of Dr. Li Wenliang.
He was the earliest whistleblower, he issued a warning about the virus,
And was therefore punished by the authorities.
He died of the new coronavirus in early February.
The night he died,
"I want freedom of speech" label
Started to become popular on Chinese social media site Weibo.
Then, the government quickly started the review.
"The subsequent review wakes us up,
Make us feel that the government will indeed censor the system
And suppress freedom of expression in the first place,
They did not admit that they had mistakenly admonished Dr. Li. "
Dr. Li has become a symbol of freedom of speech,
In the competition between online censorship and citizens.
So, who won?
At present, citizens can also lead the censorship system of the authorities.
However, the government ’s new crackdown
May test the resistance of this network.